---
layout: article
type: normal
show_excerpt: true
excerpt_type: html
title: Publications
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: layouts
---
You can download my papers from [my Repec page](https://ideas.repec.org/e/pos7.html).

# Journal articles

1 Elena Bobeica,  Konstantins Benkovskis,  Benjamin Bluhm, Chiara Osbat, Stefan Zeugner, 2019, "What drives export market shares? It depends! An empirical analysis of  competitiveness drivers using Bayesian Model Averaging", Empirical Economics, forthcoming (https://doi.org/10.1007/s00181-019-01727-z).
2 Antonello D'Agostino, Michele Modugno and Chiara Osbat, 2017, "A Global Trade Model for the Euro Area" International Journal of Central Banking, vol 13(4), pages 1-34, December.
3 Michael Ehrmann, Chiara Osbat, Jan Strasky and Lenno Uuskula, 2014, "The euro exchange rate during the European sovereign debt crisis: Dancing to its own tune?" Journal of International Money and Finance, vol. 49(B), pages 319-339, December.
4 Marco Lombardi, Chiara Osbat and Bernd Schnatz, 2012. "Global commodity cycles and linkages: a FAVAR approach," Empirical Economics, Springer, vol. 43(2), pages 651-670, October.
5 Francisco Maeso-Fernandez, Chiara Osbat, and Bernd Schnatz, 2006. "Towards the estimation of equilibrium exchange rates for transition economies: Methodological issues and a panel cointegration perspective," Journal of Comparative Economics, Elsevier, vol. 34(3), pages 499-517, September.
6 Anindya Banerjee, Massimiliano Marcellino and Chiara Osbat, 2005. "Testing for PPP: Should we use panel methods?," Empirical Economics, Springer, vol. 30(1), pages 77-91, January.
7 Francisco Maeso-Fernandez, Chiara Osbat and Bernd Schnatz, 2005. "Pitfalls in estimating equilibrium exchange rates for transition economies," Economic Systems, Elsevier, vol. 29(2), pages 130-143, June.
8 Bernd Schnatz, Focco Vijsellaar and Chiara Osbat, 2004. "Productivity and the Euro-Dollar exchange rate," Review of World Economics (Weltwirtschaftliches Archiv), Springer, vol. 140(1), pages 1-30, March.
9 Anindya Banerjee, Massimiliano Marcellino and Chiara Osbat, 2004. "Some cautions on the use of panel methods for integrated series of macroeconomic data," Econometrics Journal, Royal Economic Society, vol. 7(2), pages 322-340, December.
10 Francisco Maeso-Fernandez,  Chiara Osbat and Bernd Schnatz, 2002. "Determinants of the Euro Real Effective Exchange Rate: A BEER/PEER Approach," Australian Economic Papers, Wiley Blackwell, vol. 41(4), pages 437-461, December.


# ECB working papers

1 Andreas Joseph and Chiara Osbat, 2016, "How you export matters: the disassortative structure of international trade", Working Paper Series 1958, European Central Bank.
2 Vesna Corbo and Chiara Osbat, 2013. "Trade adjustment in the European Union: a structural estimation approach," Working Paper Series 1535, European Central Bank.
3 Vesna Corbo and Chiara Osbat, 2012. "Optimism bias? The elasticity puzzle in international economics revisited," Working Paper Series 1482, European Central Bank.
4 Olli Castrén, Chiara Osbat and Matthias Sydow, 2006. "What drives investors behaviour in different FX market segments? A VAR-based return decomposition analysis," Working Paper Series 706, European Central Bank.
5 Bernd Schnatz, Chiara Osbat and Rasmus Rueffer, 2003. "The rise of the Yen vis-a-vis the ('Synthetic') Euro: is it supported by economic fundamentals?," Working Paper Series 224, European Central Bank.


# ECB Occasional Papers

1 OP n. 181/2017, by M. Ciccarelli and C. Osbat, "Low inflation in the euro area: Causes and consequences"
2 OP n. 163/2015, by CompNet Task Force, "Compendium on the diagnostic toolkit for competitiveness"
3 OP n. 139/2012, by a team of the Working Group on Econometric Modelling of the European System of Central Banks, "Competitiveness and external imbalances within the euro area"


#  Under revision

1 Chiara Osbat, Martin Wagner and Yiqiao Sun, 2017, "Sectoral exchange rate pass-through in the euro area"
2 Sara Formai, Filippo di Mauro, Jaime Marquez and Chiara Osbat, 2011, "Pricing to market by European automobile exporters",
3 Daniela Buscaglia, Fabio Fornari and Chiara Osbat, 2009, "Confronting our FEERs: a Bayesian-model-selection-based robustness analysis"
4 Jaroslava Hlouskova,  Chiara Osbat and Sébastien Forte, 2009, "Panel unit root and panel cointegration: separating the wheat from the chaff"

# Other papers

1 Chiara Osbat, Alex Tagliabracci, Gerrit Koester, 2017, "The role of foreign slack and global supply chain integration for domestic inflation"
2 Chiara Osbat, Selin Ozyürt and Thomas Karlsson, 2012, "Cross-country differences in the trade balance contributions of price and non-price competitiveness"
3 Sara Formai and Chiara Osbat, 2012, "The determinants of trade competitiveness: a Bayesian Model Averaging approach",
4 Chiara Osbat, 2003, "An I(2) cointegration analysis of purchasing power parity between the euro area and the United States"

---

